# Costumes

You can add costumes to a sprite by specifying their file paths relative to the project directory.

```goboscript
costumes "path/to/costume.svg";
```

### Listing Multiple Costumes
To add multiple costumes, separate their file paths with commas. Costumes will appear in the order you list them in the `costumes` statement.

```goboscript
costumes "path/to/costume1.svg", "path/to/costume2.svg";
```

Each costume's name is taken from the file name without its extension.

### Renaming Costumes
You can rename a costume using the `as` keyword.

```goboscript
costumes "path/to/costume.svg" as "new name";
```

### Using Wildcards (Globs)
You can use wildcards to include multiple costumes, such as all `.svg` files in a directory. Use the `*` wildcard for this.

```goboscript
costumes "path/to/costumes/*.svg";
```

Costumes added this way are sorted alphabetically.

### `@ascii/` Prefix

If a costume name starts with `@ascii/`, goboscript will generate one costume per printable
ASCII character. Any text after the prefix is prepended to each generated name.

```goboscript
costumes "blank.svg" as "@ascii/";
```

Scratch compares strings case-insensitively. Switching costumes is, however,
case-sensitive. This can be utilized to detect the case of a character by first switching
to the costume named by the character, then using the costume number to detect the case.

For example, if you have a costume named "A" at position 1, and a costume named "a" at
position 2, you can use the following code to detect the case of a character:

```goboscript
switch_costume char;
if costume_number() == 1 {
    say "upper case A";
} else {
    say "lower case a";
}
```

Given that these are placed at the beginning of the costumes list, you can get the
ASCII value of a character by adding `31` to the costume number.

```goboscript
func ord(c) {
    switch_costume $c;
    return 31+costume_number();
}
```

You can convert a byte to a character by subtracting 31, then switching costumes.

```goboscript
func chr(c) {
    switch_costume $c-31;
    return costume_name();
}
```

## Importing higher-quality bitmap costumes (larger than 480x360)

You can import high-quality bitmap images by converting them to SVGs using
[this Python script](https://gist.github.com/aspizu/a4d33db78516fe7d08173e095a998509).

```bash
./hq.py background.png --scale 4 # scale-down by a factor of 4, ex: 960x640 -> 480x360
```

Use Makefiles to automate this process, see the default Makefile generated by
`goboscript new -m` for reference.
